{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil Calibri;}}
{\colortbl ;\red0\green0\blue255;}
{\*\generator Riched20 6.3.9600}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Demonetisation: How badly hit is the unorganised real estate and hospitality sectors\par
Vanita AkhauryDec, 01 2016 18:50:52 IST\par
#Currency#Demontisation#Gdp#Hospitality#Labour#Real estate#Rics#Unorganished sector\par
\par
The problem is that the move of demonetisation has sort of synonymised cash transactions with black money.\par
\par
Let us take few facts into consideration. \ldblquote Between the CSSO and NCEUS data, anything between 80 to 90 percent of businesses in India lie in the unorganised sector, which also contributes to half of our country\rquote s GDP. This isn\rquote t \lquote black\rquote  per se to the extent that it avoids taxes, but is not supported by the extensive paperwork that one would find in the organised, formal sector. Construction industry, including real estate, is about 6 percent of the GDP \f1\endash  so there is no reason to believe that a part of this is not covered in the informal or unorganised sector,\rdblquote  states the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors (RICS), aprofessional body for qualifications and standards in land, property, infrastructure and construction.\par
\par
Reuters\par
Reuters\par
What does the informal or unorganised sector contain? For one \endash  a good deal of material and labour supply, most \endash  if not all of which is handled in cash payments itself. The cascading effect of demonetisation has affected real estate at different levels. According to RICS, with about 86 percent of currency in the market gone, and being replaced with a miniscule number of replacement notes, it is not difficult to understand why one can see people standing in labour stands in a season which traditionally sees maximum number of productivity days, and the general low activity on construction sites.\par
\par
Similarly, materials sourced from unorganised sector \endash  bricks, sand etc. also rely significantly on cash; as do transporters. Again sub-contracting, which has now become a norm in most projects, is badly hit. RICS holds the view that till the liquidity position improves, we should not expect this situation to improve, and in the interim period, we could well be seeing multiplier effects \endash  households that were probably on the threshold of poverty now stand the risk of slipping back into deprivation as the informal sector collapses.\par
\par
Hospitality is one other sector which has been stressed in the short term. In India, the good season for this sector extends from October to March, which by and large defines the success for this industry in any given year. Given the larger base of hotel rooms in the country is in the unorganised sector, the lack of available currency is forcing some hospitality customers to either postpone / cancel their travel and accommodation. Or to use hospitality products that easily allow the use of the other modes of payments.\par
\par
Mandeep Lamba, Managing Director - Hotels, JLL India says, \ldblquote The hospitality and the tourism markets are renowned for their ability to create a large number of direct and indirect jobs in the country.\rdblquote  In the current demonetised scenario, with the inability of customers / tourists to easily spend on frills due to lack of available currency, the unorganised industry is suffering the most in its ability to create new jobs.\par
\par
The impact of demonetisation is also being felt by the suppliers of consumable goods, who often work on cash transactions with their wholesale counterparts. Also, impacted by this move is the unorganised inventory of hotels in the industry.\par
\par
In addition, the leisure sector hotels and restaurants segment are seeing a higher impact on account of the discretionary nature of spending in this sector, and the substantially larger base of cash transactions that occur in it when compared to mainstream business hotels.\par
\par
Hopefully, Lamba adds, \ldblquote As more liquidity enters the organised sector along with some further softening of land rates and gradual movement towards cleaner real estate transactions, we anticipate investments into the sector to increase from the organised players who have, in the past, shied away due to complexities associated with underlying real estate.\rdblquote\par
\par
According to a World Bank release on Ease of obtaining Construction Permits Index, India shockingly ranks at 183rd position out of a total of 187 countries. It puts us in the same club as war-torn countries where institutions have collapsed and literally offices which accord approval have been bombed to rubble.\par
\par
Therefore, for the real estate sector to emerge stronger, healthier and poised for sustained growth, what is required is, as Surendra Hiranandani, Chairman & MD, House of Hiranandani aptly states, \ldblquote Demonetisation accompanied by deregulation will produce great results.\rdblquote\par
\par
\par
Published Date: Dec 01, 2016 06:50 pm | Updated Date: Dec 01, 2016 06:50 pm\par
\par
\par
Also See\par
\par
Oct-Dec GDP at 7%: Was demonetisation demonised by critics? Wait until Q4 numbers come\par
\par
\par
Mumbai is India's richest city with $820 bn; Delhi distant second with $450 bn\par
\par
\par
Will stamp duty on affordable housing be revoked? Centre asks states to abolish it\par
\par
\par
Modi's housing for all scheme fails to get private players; why govt needs to streamline approval process\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
TOP STORIES\par
\par
The Kaur Project: A photography, storytelling website gives voice to Sikh women in the US\par
After UP Conquest, PM Modi Lays Out Mission 2022 for New India\par
India vs Australia: Virat Kohli-Steve Smith saga shows DRS needs urgent reforms to avoid further 'brain fades'\par
Narendra Modi victory walk: Good governance, development for all laced PM's speech at BJP HQ\par
Here's why your home loan application may be rejected\par
Exploring Mira Rajput's polarising take on feminism and its repercussions\par
Indian-American prosecutor Preet Bharara fired by Donald Trump administration after refusing to resign\par
\par
\par
\par
Cricket Scores\par
Current & RecentUpcoming\par
Afghanistan and Ireland in India, 3 T20I Series, 2017\par
Afghanistan beat Ireland by 28 runs\par
Afghanistan and Ireland in India, 3 T20I Series, 2017\par
Afghanistan beat Ireland by 17 runs (D/L method)\par
England in West Indies, 3 ODI Series, 2017\par
England beat West Indies by 186 runs\par
Afghanistan and Ireland in India, 3 T20I Series, 2017\par
Afghanistan beat Ireland by 6 wickets\par
South Africa in New Zealand, 3 Test Series, 2017\par
New Zealand drew with South Africa\par
Bangladesh in Sri Lanka, 2 Test Series, 2017\par
Sri Lanka beat Bangladesh by 259 runs\par
England in West Indies, 3 ODI Series, 2017\par
England beat West Indies by 4 wickets\par
Ireland in United Arab Emirates, 2 ODI Series, 2017\par
Ireland beat United Arab Emirates by 8 wickets\par
Australia in India, 4 Test Series, 2017\par
India beat Australia by 75 runs\par
South Africa in New Zealand, 5 ODI Series, 2017\par
South Africa beat New Zealand by 6 wickets\par
\par
 \par
\par
\par
Election Buzz Results Day 2017\par
\par
Aman B. Jaiswal\par
@AmanBJaiswal\par
Goa Governor Mridula Sinha appoints @manoharparrikar as the next CM of #Goa #ElectionResults @BJP4Goa #GoaElection2017 #IAmNewIndia\par
13 h\par
\par
\par
Kirtan Chauhan\par
@KirtanChauhan\par
Modi's UP wave and after - The Hindu {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://t.co/PnAHq4YaBc }}{\fldrslt{https://t.co/PnAHq4YaBc\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22  #ElectionResults {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://t.co/ekRl0OvKkj }}{\fldrslt{https://t.co/ekRl0OvKkj\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
13 h\par
\par
\par
Kirtan Chauhan\par
@KirtanChauhan\par
BJP set to form govt. in Manipur - The Hindu {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://t.co/yXTVmhjOLK }}{\fldrslt{https://t.co/yXTVmhjOLK\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22  #ElectionResults {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://t.co/30W2zSAnX9 }}{\fldrslt{https://t.co/30W2zSAnX9\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
13 h\par
\par
Erika\par
@erikaparfitt\par
#Electionresults: Ohio Primary races and issues #electionresults {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://t.co/vGX0d4Nhsp }}{\fldrslt{https://t.co/vGX0d4Nhsp\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22\par
13 h\par
\par
Kirtan Chauhan\par
@KirtanChauhan\par
Amit Shah to pick BJP CM nominees following observers' report - Economic Times {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://t.co/FZele82udB }}{\fldrslt{https://t.co/FZele82udB\ul0\cf0}}}}\f1\fs22  #ElectionResults\par
13 h\par
  \par
\par
\par
\par
\par
You are here: Latest NewsBusiness News\par
Assembly election 2017: Uttar Pradesh win is a mandate for PM Modi to push ahead big reforms\par
SeethaMar, 12 2017 09:51:22 IST\par
#Akhilesh yadav#Amit shah#Bjp#Congress#Demonetisation#Economic reform#Employment#Goa assembly election 2017#Gst#Inmyopinion#Manipur assembly election 2017#Narendra modi#Parliament#Piyush goyal#Punjab assembly election 2017#Rajya sabha#Uday express#Uttar pradesh assembly election 2017#Uttarakhand assembly election 2017\par
\par
Around 9.30 am, less than an hour after the first trends started trickling in, and it became clear that the BJP was headed for a big win in Uttar Pradesh, Congress leader Abhishek Manu Singhvi was holding forth on demonetisation. The BJP should not take the election result as a validation of demonetisation, he said, it is a bad policy regardless of the results.\par
\par
Sure, an election result cannot determine the soundness or not of any economic policy. Bank nationalisation was not a good policy just because Indira Gandhi sold it as a pro-poor measure and won elections. Similarly, the jury on demonetisation will be out some years down the line. It may turn out to be a master-stroke or may turn out to be a disaster.\par
\par
But who kept warning that BJP has invited electoral disaster upon itself with demonetisation? It was the entire political opposition and the allergic-to-Modi crowd. Even when the BJP put up a good show in the local body elections in Maharashtra and Odisha, the chorus that came from the anti-Modi side was that demonetisation was not a big factor here, but it will be in the Uttar Pradesh elections. They have been proved wrong again and a senior journalist was gracious enough to admit this during a television panel discussion. But Indian politicians are not known for their graciousness \endash  hence the latest spin about how this election was not a referendum on demonetisation.\par
\par
Prime minister Narendra Modi. PTI\par
Prime minister Narendra Modi. PTI\par
Let us, for argument\rquote s sake, agree that demonetisation was a disastrous move. It is clear now that even if a bad policy is packaged and marketed well, it will sell. As Akhilesh Yadav so churlishly said \endash  voter samajhte nahin hain, behkaave mein aa jaate hain (voters refuse to understand; they get swayed by spin).\par
\par
So, will Narendra Modi now move ahead on reforms agenda that his critics will almost certainly dub as disastrous (never mind that they may have championed them before May 2014), marketing them well to offset any electoral reverses? There is simply no debate on this \endash  he should. He must use the mandate he has got to push ahead on the development front.\par
\par
There is no point in boasting about growth figures. Figures don\rquote t matter when people do not have jobs. There is a serious problem on the employment front and the government needs to recognise this. The Jat agitation, Patidar agitation, the short fuse the youth seem to be on, all stem from this. The young are firmly behind Modi, but only because they think he will bring them employment \endash  if not regular jobs, avenues for earning money. This requires serious action on several fronts.\par
\par
The biggest arena of action will be Uttar Pradesh itself. As BJP president Amit Shah said at his press conference on Saturday, India cannot grow in double digits when Uttar Pradesh is growing in single digits. The state is lagging on almost all development parameters. Given the overwhelming majority the part has got, there should now be focussed attention on infrastructure, especially power and roads.\par
\par
Uttar Pradesh is on board power minister Piyush Goyal\rquote s UDAY express, but there\rquote s little progress on improving the efficiency of the state electricity board. That can now change and the Centre must prevail on the state government to eschew populism, which is the bane of state electricity boards across the country. If the infrastructure (power and roads) and law and order deficits are fixed, then economic activity in Uttar Pradesh will get a much-needed revival and should bring jobs in its wake.\par
\par
But what about other economic initiatives? Will the stupendous Uttar Pradesh win change equations in the Rajya Sabha, where the Congress has managed to play spoiler on many occasions? Will it change equations in the GST Council which still has to green flag the bills related to compensation to states and the draft integrated GST law?\par
\par
GST may be a shoo-in now; after the drubbing the Congress got in Uttar Pradesh and the BJP\rquote s surprising show in Manipur, the former cannot continue to play the spoiler on this. The laws have to clear Parliament, but will probably be brought in as money bills, which means there is precious little the Congress can do to block them.\par
\par
Fortunately, some big bang reforms that require legislative approval are in place, like the Bankruptcy and Insolvency Code, for example. Labour law reform is a pending reform, but the legislative route can be bypassed by encouraging states to amend their laws and then facilitating Presidential assent for them. The changed equation in the Rajya Sabha will help in the election of the next President. Then there are a lot of not very glamorous bills which can give a fillip to manufacturing that are pending \endash  an amendment to the Factories Act is one - and can\rquote t be brought as money bills. The government will need to strategise on these.\par
\par
Will Modi make a big move on privatisation? Unlikely. What is keeping Modi from this much-needed move is not fear of political backlash; he genuinely believes in the public sector. Only the really hopeless cases will be given up. No, that may not mean Air India.\par
\par
But Modi\rquote s economic agenda will surely need watching from now on.\par
\par
\par
PARTY\tab LEAD\tab WIN\tab L+W\tab TOTAL SEATS: 70\tab COMPLETE RESULTS\par
 BJP\tab 1\tab 56\tab 57\tab 57\par
 INC\tab 0\tab 11\tab 11\tab 11\par
 OTHERS\tab 0\tab 2\tab 2\tab 2\par
 BSP\tab 0\tab 0\tab 0\tab 0\par
Published Date: Mar 12, 2017 09:51 am | Updated Date: Mar 12, 2017 09:51 am\f0\par
}
 